---
title: 'Guide: Install CP2102 driver'
---

The USB-serial requires a CP2102 driver installed on your laptop. Most recent macOS and Windows ship with the necessary driver pre-installed. Howevef, if you have an older Windows OS, you may need to manually install the driver.

## Manual install CP2012 driver if on older Windows

> __Is your Windows version v11 or newer?__ If so, you should have CP2102 support out of the box. Skip over this section and do not install the Silicon Labs driver.
{: .callout-warning}

1. Installing the CP2102 driver is done from Windows (not inside the WSL terminal). Switch to your Windows web browser and go to the Silicon Labs [CP210x Downloads page](https://www.silabs.com/developers/usb-to-uart-bridge-vcp-drivers?tab=downloads).
1. Select the "Downloads" tab and find "CP210x Windows Drivers v6.7.6". Download this zip file.
    > __Be sure to choose version 6.7.6!__ Don't be confused by other drivers with similar names and slightly different version numbers. The version to download is exactly __CP210x Windows Drivers v6.7.6__.
    {: .callout-warning}
1. Extract all files from the downloaded zip file. Look in the uncompressed folder for the installer exe file that matches the architecture of your laptop.  If your laptop is 64-bit, the installer exe is named `CP210xVCPInstaller_x64.exe`. If 32-bit, it is `CP210xVCPInstaller_x86.exe`.
    - If you are not sure whether your laptop is 32 or 64-bit, use command `dpkg --print-architecture` in your WSL terminal and look for a response of `amd64` (64-bit) or `i386` (32-bit).
1. Run the installer exe file and follow its instructions.

{% comment %}
{% include checkstep.html content="confirm System Information finds driver" %}
Removed this check step as driver does not show up until it has been loaded. Leave this information here for trouble-shooting.

1. Open the "System Information" app. A panel pops up with a "System Summary" of your hardware and software environment.
1. Use the "Find what:" field at the bottom of the panel to search for "silabs". (Be patient while it searches)
1. The search should find matching Serial Port Driver with name "SILABSER.SYS" and description "Silicon Labs CP210x USB to UART Bridge Driver".

    > __Driver not found?__ We suspect that the Windows System Information may not find the driver if it has net yet loaded it for a device. Try plugging your USB-serial and then check again.
    {: .callout-warning}
{% endcomment %}
<A name="find-dev"></A>
## Confirm CP2102 driver finds USB-serial device
Plug in the usb-serial into a USB port or USB hub on your laptop and confirm it can be found. 


### Using `find-dev.sh`
We wrote a litte script `find-dev.sh` to look for the USB device whose id matches CP2102.
The script prints the device path if found, otherwise it reports an error.

In the example below, the first command did not find the usb-serial because it was not connected
or was switched off.
If you try again after reconnecting, find-dev should print the device path. Note that __your__ device path may be different than
the one shown below.

```console
$ find-dev.sh
Could not find CP2102 serial device.
I looked through the serial devices on this computer, and did not
find a device associated with a CP2102 USB-serial adapter. Is
your USB-serial adapter plugged in?

$ find-dev.sh
/dev/cu.usbserial-0001
```
There are other ways to find the device path (`lsusb -v` on linux, `diff` files in `ls /dev` directory
when CP2102 plugged in and again when not, ...) Ask if you need help with one of these methods.

If you are not able to find the device, your drivers likely did not install correctly, grab a TA for some help!

{% include checkstep.html content="confirm __CP2102 driver__ finds device" %}
